hello



Week 2 Lab:

Task 1:
Just an intro

Task 2:
I read every Layer before answering questions, I know I'll definitely have to go back and look before every question.

Question 1
Which layer would choose to send data over TCP or UDP?

I read each Layer, looking for the keywords UDP or TCP
I spot the word UDP in Layer 4, so I re-read it.
I placed 4 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 2
Which layer checks received packets to make sure that they haven't been corrupted?
I remembered something about corruption since this was one of the more recent layers I read compared to the first few.
Knowing this, I looked through both layer 1 and layer 2 first to see if the answer was there.
Sure enough the word "corrupted" was used here.
I place 2 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 3
In which layer would data be formatted in preparation for transmission?
I read something about formatting in Layer 5, seeing as it said it was "already formatted", I put my answer as 6.
I was incorrect, the answer is not 6.
Going back and reading through every other layer, I stumbled onto layer 2 stating that it does the very thing that the question asks.
I place 2 as my 2nd answer, and it is correct.

Question 4
Which layer transmits and receives data?
I read down the list again and noted that Layer 6 receives data from the application layer but it does not transmit. So I knew this wasn't the right answer.
I struggled hard to find the answer since many of the layers transmit and receive data from eachother.
However, the answer can't be anything that involves sending data to eachother, so I looked to see if any layer would send and recieve data from outside.
Then I remembered, that the "physical" layer is literally physical and not inside the machine.
So I reread Layer 1, and found that it did exactly what I asked for "This is where the electrical pulses that make up data transfer over a network are sent and received"
I place 1 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 5
Which layer encrypts, compresses, or otherwise transforms the initial data to give it a standardised format?
This one was rather easy, I remember there being only 1 area where the word "compress" was used. I went to layer 6 and read through the description again.
Sure enough, this had all the words "Encryption", "Compression" and "other transformations"
I place 6 as my answer and it is correct.

Question 6
Which layer tracks communications between the host and receiving computers?
This one had me stumped for a bit.
I was re-reading through every layer for this one. I kept reading the question and then read a layer, rince and repeat.
I managed to get to layer 5 when I noticed the word host. I went back to the question to make sure host was the right word.
Sure enough, it was. The words used on this one was very confusion so I put 5 as a guess more than a "I know the answer"
I place 5 as my answer and somehow it is correct. I made sure to re-read the layer just in case and I'm still stumped if that is really what it says.

Question 7
Which layer accepts communication requests from applications?
It's incredibly easy. Layer 7 is literally named the "Application layer"
I just put 7 and then it gave me a correct answer.

Question 8
Which layer handles logical addressing?
I remember on question 6, I see logical addressing on layer 3. I went to re-read layer 3.
Sure enough, it was there. I placed my answer as 3 and it said I was correct.

Question 9
When sending data over TCP, what would you call the "bite-sized" pieces of data?
This is the first question that didn't ask for what layer it is in, but rather what the term bite-sized stood for.
I went to my first question and remembered TCP being in layer 4 so I decided to go to layer 4.
When I saw the parenthesis saying segments for TCP, I put segments as my answer. Sure enough that was it.

(nice)

Question 10
Which layer would the FTP protocol communicate with?
This is without a doubt the hardest question so far
I searched for the words like protocol, or communicate.
Protocol was most seen used in layer 4, so I thought that was the answer. It was not.
Then I looked at the question and realized it said [Research].
So I researched, I used google and looked up the answer. It said it was in layer 7.

Question 11
Which transport layer protocol would be best suited to transmit a live video?
Considering I went over this in parenthesis numerous times, I simply went over to that spot and saw UDP as the answer.
So sure enough, that was it.

Task 3:
Question 1:
