Another week and another day I have barely any time to complete any work
I don't try to procrastinate but considering I have so much on my plate IRL and being too tired to do anything when I get home makes it difficult not to.
Asside from answering the automatically answered question, I simply get started.


Task 2

Question 1: Browse to the following website and ensure that you have opened your Developer Tools on AttackBox Firefox, or the browser on your computer. Using the Developer Tools, figure out the total number of questions.

Aside from doing a small little lab thing that made literally no sense to me, I counted the amount of questions after restarting the process again.
My answer was "8"


Task 3: I hate this Task now, please never give me it again.

I'm literally waiting 2 full minutes for this stupid program to start.
Then it starts making this stupid epileptic flashing on my screen. Give a warning first.
I literally couldn't handle this so I went to Edge instead and the answers weren't there except for question 4.
This Task infurated me.

Question 1: Which option would you use to set the size of the data carried by the ICMP echo request?
Google is my best friend here since the answer isn't found in this THM Lab
-s

Question 2: What is the size of the ICMP header in bytes?
Google is my best friend here since the answer also isn't found in this THM Lab.
8

Question 3: Does MS Windows Firewall block ping by default? (Y/N)
50% chance for it to be yes or no, I got it right the first time.
Y

Question 4: Deploy the VM for this task and using the AttackBox terminal, issue the command ping -c 10 MACHINE_IP. How many ping replies did you get back?
After so much issues with the stupid terminal, I got told 64 and put that as my answer but it was wrong.  I counted how many times the message got sent and it was 10.
10


Task 4:

























































































































































































