I wake up today, feeling tired after a long week of college and slept in today. (I had things to do on friday)
I nearly forgot that I had a bunch of assignments for this class due the very next night.
I had to go and do some stuff today IRL as well so I only just get started on my assignments at 9 pm.
I watch the zoom video, copy all the slides into my folder for week 4, then realize 3 hours past by and now it's midnight on the day these assignments are due.
Great... 24 hours to basically do everything.

Task 1

Question 1:
What does DNS stand for?
Considering I see the question and the Answer on the same screen, I see that in Parenthesis on the very first sentence tells me the answer.
Domain Name System was the answer.

I just noticed that this was the ONLY question for task 1...

Task 2

Question 1:
What is the maximum length of a subdomain?
after reading the page, it told me that "63 characters" was the answer, but the format said "**".
Assuming the answer is only "63", I placed the answer and it was correct.

Question 2:
Which of the following characters cannot be used in a subdomain ( 3 b _ - )?
It told me that the hyphen was the only 1 that can't be used so I put a _ and it worked.
Yeah, an Underscore is not a hyphen but that's a woops on my part. It still counts as correct.

Question 3:
What is the maximum length of a domain name?
"the length must be kept to 253 characters or less" is in the 2nd to the last sentence of the page.


Question 4:
What type of TLD is .co.uk?
I looked and skimmed back the page and found that it would tell me that a cctld was used for geographical purposes and stated that .co.uk was there.

Task 3
Question 1: 
What type of record would be used to advise where to send email?
mx allows the user to send an email in the case that a website is down.

Question 2:
What type of record handles IPv6 addresses?
"aaaa", literally didn't tell me much, all it said was that it can "resolve to IPv6 addresses, for example 2606:4700:20::681a:be5"

Task 4
Question 1:
What field specifies how long a DNS record should be cached for?
I remember this from earlier when we were doing the linux coding.
"TTL" was called "Time to Live" and I thought it was funny when I saw it at the time.
Sure enough, TTL was being mentioned so I put it as my answer.

Question 2:
What type of DNS Server is usually provided by your ISP?
it sais that a recursive DNS server is used in the 2nd paragraph.

Question 3:
What type of server holds all the records for a domain?
Going back and re-reading the entire page again because I forgot where the answer was.
I read to paragraph 5 and it stated that "authoritative" was the choice...
Besides getting the answer wrong 2 times because I kept mispelling the word authoritative, it finally accepted.

Task 5

Question 1:
What is the CNAME of shop.website.thm?
I was confused about what the heck I was supposed to do so I watched the video for any clues.
It takes a bit but I learned how to do this terminal.
I put "shops.myshopify.com" after a little trial and error (and being on the wrong button to search for)

Question 2:
What is the value of the TXT record of website.thm?
THM{7012BBA60997F35A9516C2E16D2944FF}
I mean, once you learn how to use the terminal, the rest is incredibly easy.

Question 3:
What is the numerical priority value for the MX record?
"30", I kept trying to find the DNS on accident though.

Question 4:
What is the IP address for the A record of www.website.thm?
"10.10.10.10", yeah there's not much to say on task 5 except in question 1.




























