(I hope this is fine for Week 3)

Well, it's 3 am in the morning and I have basically to work on this assignment and the quiz or else I'll forget.
I watched the video and went into the discussions on Canvas to view a few topics and ask my own question about what an EMI does to cables.
I then went to the Week 3 lab, and went ahead to start on that.


I got a notification the moment I clicked on the link to allow supernova. No idea why it asked, I simply answered yes and continued.
I read the first page of the lab from top to bottom, then start answering the questions by going back through what I read. Standard procedures.
I saw this strange Topology minigame on the right side of my screen.
It taught me how a the ring topology will stop sending data if there is a cut in the wire.
It taught me how the bus topology can be overflowed with data and crash the system.
It taught me what happens to the star topology if something were to damage the switch.

Task 1

Question 1:
What does LAN stand for?

I literally didn't have to search this up, anyone who has played a cracked version of Minecraft in high school understands this term very well, since this was the only form-
-of multiplayer which meant you can only play with other students who are in your school and they are also using the same cracked client on their own computers.
I typed my answer "Local Area Network" and not surprisingly, I was correct.

Question 2:
What is the verb given to the job that Routers perform?
considering I looked in the verb section and missed the answer 3 times made me think finding waldo would be an easier challenge.
I looked at "routing" and kept misreading that as "router", 3 times actually.
as soon as I found out my mistake, I put that as my answer and it worked.

Question 3:
What device is used to centrally connect multiple devices on the local network and transmit data to the correct location?
I remember reading about it, so I put "switch" as my answer and it worked just fine.

Question 4:
What topology is cost-efficient to set up?
I remember hearing that star topology was the most expensive so it couldn't be that answer.
The only 2 options left are bus and ring.
I put bus topology as my guess and it worked just fine.

Question 5:
What topology is expensive to set up and maintain?
I literally JUST said the answer in Question 4.
I put Star Topology as the answer and it worked just fine.

Question 6:
Complete the interactive lab attached to this task. What is the flag given at the end?
I did it already then closed the attachment before getting started on my other questions.
I had to redo the entire interactive lab again to get the code: "THM{TOPOLOGY_FLAWS}"

Task 2

Another task, another giant page of words to read.

Question 1:
What is the technical term for dividing a network up into smaller pieces?
I read this in the very first paragraph, not really much to say here.
"Subnetting" was the answer.

Question 2:
How many bits are in a subnet mask?
Right below the IP address example, it shows us how many bits are in 4 bytes and they can range from 0-255.
"32" is my answer.

Question 3:
What is the range of a section (octet) of a subnet mask?
I literally JUST said the answer in question 2:
"0-255"

Question 4: 
What address is used to identify the start of a network?
Looking at the graph, it shows only 3 addresses: "Network Address, Host Address, and Default Gateway" in that order.
So "Network Address" was the answer.

Question 5:
What address is used to identify devices within a network?
This is play the "copy+paste" game from the table to the answer.
"Host Address"

Question 6:
What is the name used to identify the device responsible for sending data to another network?
Again, the copy paste game.
"Default Gateway"

Task 3
Time to read once again!
on the plus side, this is rather short compared to the other 2 tasks, likewise this only has 4 questions.

Question 1:
What does ARP stand for?
Like any other Question 1 of every task I've done so far, I went to the very top of the page to see what the answer was.
"Address Resolution Protocol"

Question 2:
What category of ARP Packet asks a device whether or not it has a specific IP address?
This was rather easy, what is a synonym for "ask", it's called "Request" and ARP Request is something that we read in the module.
I put "Request" as my answer and it worked.

Question 3:
What address is used as a physical identifier for a device on a network?
This one was a little tricky at first, but reading into the sentence helped me understand.
"Mac Address"

Question 4:
What address is used as a logical identifier for a device on a network?
I wasn't really confident in this answer, but considering the question had "** *******" as the syntax, I figured it was right.
We also talked about this a bit on the page.
sure enough, "ip address" was right.

Task 4

Here I thought nothing could be shorter than task 3, but task 4 has even less reading, and likewise only 3 questions.
I'm rather tired, it's now 4:26 in the morning. Sacrificing my sleep since school is mandatory.

Question 1:
What type of DHCP packet is used by a device to retrieve an IP address?
I looked at the graph, the graph makes this easier to understand.
I put "DHCP Discover" as my answer and called it a day.

Question 2:
What type of DHCP packet does a device send once it has been offered an IP address by the DHCP server?
I look at the graph again
"DHCP Request" was the answer I got.

Question 3:
Finally, what is the last DHCP packet that is sent to a device from a DHCP server?
"DHCP ACK" was the last thing on the graph.

And that was the end of the lab for this week! I'm sorry if my last few blog questions were rather sloppy, I've been up all night and it's already 4:32 AM. Please forgive me.

