Week 2 Lab:

Task 1:
Just an intro

Task 2:
I read every Layer before answering questions, I know I'll definitely have to go back and look before every question.

Question 1
Which layer would choose to send data over TCP or UDP?

I read each Layer, looking for the keywords UDP or TCP
I spot the word UDP in Layer 4, so I re-read it.
I placed 4 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 2
Which layer checks received packets to make sure that they haven't been corrupted?
I remembered something about corruption since this was one of the more recent layers I read compared to the first few.
Knowing this, I looked through both layer 1 and layer 2 first to see if the answer was there.
Sure enough the word "corrupted" was used here.
I place 2 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 3
In which layer would data be formatted in preparation for transmission?
I read something about formatting in Layer 5, seeing as it said it was "already formatted", I put my answer as 6.
I was incorrect, the answer is not 6.
Going back and reading through every other layer, I stumbled onto layer 2 stating that it does the very thing that the question asks.
I place 2 as my 2nd answer, and it is correct.

Question 4
Which layer transmits and receives data?
I read down the list again and noted that Layer 6 receives data from the application layer but it does not transmit. So I knew this wasn't the right answer.
I struggled hard to find the answer since many of the layers transmit and receive data from eachother.
However, the answer can't be anything that involves sending data to eachother, so I looked to see if any layer would send and recieve data from outside.
Then I remembered, that the "physical" layer is literally physical and not inside the machine.
So I reread Layer 1, and found that it did exactly what I asked for "This is where the electrical pulses that make up data transfer over a network are sent and received"
I place 1 as my answer, and it is correct.

Question 5
Which layer encrypts, compresses, or otherwise transforms the initial data to give it a standardised format?
This one was rather easy, I remember there being only 1 area where the word "compress" was used. I went to layer 6 and read through the description again.
Sure enough, this had all the words "Encryption", "Compression" and "other transformations"
I place 6 as my answer and it is correct.

Question 6
Which layer tracks communications between the host and receiving computers?
This one had me stumped for a bit.
I was re-reading through every layer for this one. I kept reading the question and then read a layer, rince and repeat.
I managed to get to layer 5 when I noticed the word host. I went back to the question to make sure host was the right word.
Sure enough, it was. The words used on this one was very confusion so I put 5 as a guess more than a "I know the answer"
I place 5 as my answer and somehow it is correct. I made sure to re-read the layer just in case and I'm still stumped if that is really what it says.

Question 7
Which layer accepts communication requests from applications?
It's incredibly easy. Layer 7 is literally named the "Application layer"
I just put 7 and then it gave me a correct answer.

Question 8
Which layer handles logical addressing?
I remember on question 6, I see logical addressing on layer 3. I went to re-read layer 3.
Sure enough, it was there. I placed my answer as 3 and it said I was correct.

Question 9
When sending data over TCP, what would you call the "bite-sized" pieces of data?
This is the first question that didn't ask for what layer it is in, but rather what the term bite-sized stood for.
I went to my first question and remembered TCP being in layer 4 so I decided to go to layer 4.
When I saw the parenthesis saying "segments" for TCP, I put "segments" as my answer. Sure enough that was it.

(nice)

Question 10
Which layer would the FTP protocol communicate with?
This is without a doubt the hardest question so far
I searched for the words like protocol, or communicate.
Protocol was most seen used in layer 4, so I thought that was the answer. It was not.
Then I looked at the question and realized it said [Research].
So I researched, I used google and looked up the answer. It said it was in layer 7.

Question 11
Which transport layer protocol would be best suited to transmit a live video?
Considering I went over this in parenthesis numerous times, I simply went over to that spot and saw UDP as the answer.
So sure enough, that was it.

I went to bed for the night so I could continue in the morning.
The next morning, I went back to doing the assignment.

Task 3:
Question 1
How would you refer to data at layer 2 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model)?
I read through the details and checked the graph, the answer should be "frames"
I put frames in the answer and for some reason, the pressing submit didn't work.
I had to refresh the page and repeat the answer, it works now.

Question 2
How would you refer to data at layer 4 of the encapsulation process (with the OSI model), if the UDP protocol has been selected?
Well, considering I had this very question yesterday, and remembering that the other question asked for me to answer "segments", then the answer for this one had to be "Datagrams"
I place "Datagrams" as my answer.

Question 3
What process would a computer perform on a received message?
I read the paragraph about encapsulation and de-encapsulation
I at first got confused and thought encapsulation was the answer.
When it said that it wasn't, I went for de-encapsulation instead.
Sure enough "de-encapsulation" was the correct answer.

Question 4
Which is the only layer of the OSI model to add a trailer during encapsulation?
This one is fairly easy. To the left of the graph, there is a list of what every layer "adds"
Considering the question said "**** ****" as the answer, and going back to the list to confirm if that was correct, I placed "Data Link" as my answer.

Question 5
Does encapsulation provide an extra layer of security (Aye/Nay)?
I at first thought the answer was Nay, since I skipped over the detail about added security as I skimmed through all the paragraphs.
When I put that as my answer, I was wrong.
I searched again through every paragraph then saw the detail above the graph.
I then pute Aye as my answer and moved on.

Task 4:
Question 1
Which model was introduced first, OSI or TCP/IP?
considering the answer is literally saying "***/**", it's obvious TCP/IP is the answer
Questions like this give away the obvious answer if their "format answer" gives away the special characters like "/" or spaces.

Question 2
Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Transport layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
Well, going over the entire graph saying Transport has access to Transport.... I'd probably answer with "Transport"
sure enough, it was the correct answer.

Question 3
Which layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of the Session layer of the OSI model (Full Name)?
Going back to the very same graph, it tells me that the Session layer is used by the Application layer the TCP/IP model
I used "Application" as my answer and it was correct.

Question 4
The Network Interface layer of the TCP/IP model covers the functionality of two layers in the OSI model. These layers are Data Link, and?.. (Full Name)?
going back to the graph once again, the 2 layers I see are Data Link and Physical. Since Data Link is already in the question, it was asking me for the other one.
I put "Physical" as my answer and it was correct.

Question 5
Which layer of the TCP/IP model handles the functionality of the OSI network layer?
Going back to the graph for a 4th time, it said internet is the answer.
sure enough, "internet" was the correct answer.

Question 6
What kind of protocol is TCP?
I searched by going back to the Paragraph that talked exclusively about TCP and not TCP/IP
I saw in italics that the answer was "connection-based". I put that as the answer and it was correct.

Question 7
What is SYN short for?
I remember reading this (anything in parenthesis is normally important and I know to remember what they say)
I place the answer "synchronise", and sure enough it was correct.

Question 8
What is the second step of the three way handshake?
The answer literally said "***/***" again, so it clearly was SYN/ACK.
It's also in the graph.
I put "SYN/ACK" as the answer and it was correct.

Question 9
What is the short name for the "Acknowledgement" segment in the three-way handshake?
what have we been talking about the entire time? SYN and ACK.
what is the first 3 letters of "Acknowledgement"?
Sure enough "ACK" was the correct answer.

Task 5:

I DON'T OWN A LINUX
https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/ping.8.html - what I used to find my answers.

Question 1
What command would you use to ping the bbc.co.uk website?
Considering the graph said to "ping <target>", it's clearly obvious that the answer would be "ping bbc.co.uk"
so I place it as my answer and it was correct.

Question 2
What is the IPv4 address?
The hint is telling me to answer question 4 before returning to question 2.
it took me a bit to learn but I did it in my "Control Panel"
at first I did "ping muirlandoracle.co.uk" and it worked, except it didn't show me the IPv4 address.
I then put "-4 muirlandoracle.co.uk" and that was invalid.
I put "ping -4 muirlandoracle.co.uk" and that was also invalid.
Then finally, I put "ping muirlandoracle.co.uk -4" and it finally gave me the answer I was looking for.
"217.160.0.152"

Question 3
What switch lets you change the interval of sent ping requests?
Going through the manual page, I found out that -i stood for "interval"
when I put "-i" as my answer, it worked just fine.

Question 4
What switch would allow you to restrict requests to IPv4?
Considering that no lick of information is on this site, I googled "man page for ping"
Unfortunately, I literally can't find the answer when I select ping(8) or ping(1), and the number options don't appear either.
After everything, I decided to look up another page for it, I used: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man8/ping.8.html
I found in the options setting that "-4" uses IPv4 only.
I put "-4" and it let me in just fine.

Question 5
What switch would give you a more verbose output?
considering verbose started with v, I decided to scroll all the way down to -v.
sure enough "-v" stands for verbose, so I placed it as my answer and went back to question 2.


Task 6:
Question 1
Use traceroute on tryhackme.com
Can you see the path your request has taken?
since I'm on windows, I have to use tracert instead but it worked just fine.

Question 2
What switch would you use to specify an interface when using Traceroute?
considering the word interface starts with -i, that was what I went down towards.
sure enough it said "-i" is used for interface. I put in my answer and it was correct.

Question 3
What switch would you use if you wanted to use TCP SYN requests when tracing the route?
I went to -t at first for TCP SYN but it turns out that belongs to tos.
I went to the uppercase form at -T and it talks about TCP SYN
I decide to use "-T" as my answer and it said it was good.

Question 4
[Lateral Thinking] Which layer of the TCP/IP model will traceroute run on by default (Windows)?
I didn't know the answer to this so I went back to the TCP/IP model section in Task 4.
I searched through the model but the answer wasn't obvious.
I figured since we're messing with networking, I would put the "internet" layer as my answer.
To my surprised, the Internet layer was the correct answer.

Task 7:
Question 1
Perform a whois search on facebook.com

Question 2
What is the registrant postal code for facebook.com?
94025

Question 3
When was the facebook.com domain first registered (Format: DD/MM/YYYY)?
I kept getting the format wrong, I kept thinking it was MM/DD/YYYY.
29/03/1997

Question 4
[OSINT] What is the name of the golf course that is near the registrant address for microsoft.com?
I simply googled it and found the answer was "Bellevue Golf Course"

Question 5
What is the registered Tech Email for microsoft.com?
msnhst@microsoft.com

The majority of the questions above were "look for where it said it is", it had little searching or reading.

Task 8:
Question 1
What is DNS short for?
I found the answer at the very top of the page, normally what an acronym stands for is usually displayed first to let the readers know what it is before talking more about it.
I saw "domain name system" in parenthesis, so I put that as my answer and it worked fine.

Question 2
What is the first type of DNS server your computer would query when you search for a domain?
I read through the 2nd paragraph, noticing that the answer was in the first sentence.
I put "recursive" as my answer and it was alright.

Question 3
What type of DNS server contains records specific to domain extensions (i.e. .com, .co.uk*, etc)*? Use the long version of the name.
I remember seeing the paranthesis about .com/.co.uk
It said the answer was TLD, with the full name being "Top-Level Domain". That's my answer so I put it there.

Question 4
Where is the very first place your computer would look to find the IP address of a domain?
I went back to find the answer, and checked that "The first thing that your computer does is check its local cache" if it already has its ip.
I put "local cache" then clicked enter, the answer is correct.

Question 5
[Research] Google runs two public DNS servers. One of them can be queried with the IP 8.8.8.8, what is the IP address of the other one?
I went to https://www.digwebinterface.com/ since I don't own a linux. I typed in "ns google.com" and found "ns@8.8.4.4 (Default):"
I put "8.8.4.4" as the answer and it was somehow correct.

Question 6
If a DNS query has a TTL of 24 hours, what number would the dig query show?
The number that the dig query shows is in seconds, so I'll need to times this by 60, then times the next number by 60 again.
   24           1440
*  60       *     60
 ____       ________
    0              0
+1440       +  86400
_____       ________
=1440       = "86400" is my answer.




I'd like to know if you want me to make a new "blog" file or continue using this one for the next lab.


